Basics

1. Write a script that uses a for loop to count from 3 to 7.
2. Write a script that uses a for loop to count from 1 to 17000.
3. Write a script that uses a while loop to count from 3 to 7.
4. Write a script that uses an until loop to count down from 8 to 4.
5. Write a script that counts the number of files ending in .txt in the current directory.
6. Wrap an if statement around the script so it is also correct when there are zero files ending in .txt.
7. Write a script to display "hello world" using a function.  Refer script 15_functionsBasic.sh for solution. Refer below Exercise_13 and Exercise_14 for more.
8. Chek if the number entered by user is greater than 10.
9. Writea script to check if file exists. If not then create it.
10. Write a script that takes two command line arguments. Check whether the name passed as first argument is of a directory or not. If not, then create a new directory with the name passed as second
argument

Exercises

Exercise_1 - Write a srcipt to rename a file. The old name and new name must be passed at command line.

Exercise_2 - Write a shell script that prints “Shell Scripting is Fun!” on the screen

Exercise_3 - Modify the shell script from exercise 1 to include a variable. The variable will hold the contents of the message “Shell Scripting is Fun!”

Exercise_4 - Store the output of the command “hostname” in a variable. Display “This script is running on _.” where “_” is the output of the “hostname” command. 

Exercise_5 - Write a shell script to check to see if the file “file_path” exists. If it does exist, display “file_path passwords are enabled.” Next, check to see if you can write to the file. If you can, display “You have permissions to edit “file_path.””If you cannot, display “You do NOT have permissions to edit “file_path””

Exercise_6 - Write a shell script that displays “man”,”bear”,”pig”,”dog”,”cat”,and “sheep” on the screen with each appearing on a separate line. Try to do this in as few lines as possible.:w!

Exercise_7 - write a shell script that prompts the user for a name of a file or directory and reports if it is a regular file, a directory, or another type of file. Also perform an ls command against the file or directory with the long listing option.

Exercise_8 - Modify the previous script to that it accepts the file or directory name as an argument instead of prompting the user to enter it.

Exercise_9 - Modify the previous script to accept an unlimited number of files and directories as arguments.

Exercise_10 - Write a shell script that displays, “This script will exit with 0 exit status.” Be sure that the script does indeed exit with a 0 exit status.

Exercise_11 - Write a shell script that accepts a file or directory name as an argument. Have the script report if it is reguler file, a directory, or another type of file. If it is a file, exit with a 0 exit status. If it is a directory, exit with a 1 exit status. If it is some other type of file, exit with a 2 exit status.

Exercise_12 - Write a script that executes the command “cat/etc/shadow”. If the command return a 0 exit status, report “command succeeded” and exit with a 0 exit status. If the command returns a non-zero exit status, report “Command failed” and exit with a 1 exit status.

Exercise_13 - Write a shell script that consists of a function that displays the number of files in the present working directory. Name this function “file_count” and call it in your script. If you use variable in your function, remember to make it a local variable. 

Exercise_14 - Modify the script from the previous exercise. Make the “file_count” function accept a directory as an argument. Next, have the function display the name of the directory followed by a colon. Finally display the number of files to the screen on the next line. Call the function three times. First on the “/etc” directory, next on the “/var” directory and finally on the “/usr/bin” directory.

Exercise_15 - Write the shell script that renames all files in the current directory that end in “.jpg” to begin with today’s date in the following format: YYYY-MM-DD. For example, if a picture of my cat was in the current directory and today was October 31,2016 it would change name from “mycat.jpg” to “2016–10–31-mycat.jpg”.


Exercise_16 - Write the shell script that renames all files in the current directory that end in “.jpg” to begin with today’s date in the following format: YYYY-MM-DD. For example, if a picture of my cat was in the current directory and today was October 31,2016 it would change name from “mycat.jpg” to “2016–10–31-mycat.jpg”.

Exercise_17 - Created the start-up script for an application start and stop.

Exercise_18 - Write the shell script that displays one random number on the screen and also generates a system log message with that random number.Use the “user” facility and “info” facility for your messages.

Exercise_19 - Modify the previous script to that it uses a logging function. Additionally, tag each syslog message with “randomly” and include process ID. Generate a 3 random numbers.

Exercise_20 - Write a shell script that exits on error and displays command as they will execute, including all expansions and substitutions. Use 3 ls command in your script. Make the first one succeed, the second one fail, and third one succeed. If you are using the proper options, the third ls command not be executed.

Exercise_21 - Modify the previous exercise so that script continuous, even if an error occurs. This time, all three ls command will execute.
